well everybody Tim McLain were down on
the beautiful stretch run here at my
Quigley's we have our Tober ski trip by
brooke sutherland our marketing
assistant and we're going to give you
two quick stretches that you should be
doing leading up to the ski season a lot
of people complain about back pain this
will help with those issues when you're
skiing first one Brooks is going to get
down there for us on his back and I'm
going to go through three kind of steps
first thing babies groans bring it up
and then all I ask dude here is just
roll to the side roll to the right and
hold roll to the left and hold
everyone's going to be able to do that
unless you've got some issues with your
back this is a great stretch to do in
the morning when you're here you can
actually make it more dynamic moving
back left and right Brooks that's right
keep your head on the ground and move
back and forth there we go okay we're
going to add to this now Brooks is going
to stick his left leg flat on the ground
left leg claddagh the ground good he's
going to roll his right leg to the left
crossing good bring your hand up your
right hand other hand there we go and
look you get that stretch and I can add
to this yeah so I'm stretching with you
just by pushing a little bit you know
yeah did going to hold up for 30 seconds
move to the next side because I don't
want you to stretch run alongside it
Brooks okay so that's a really good
backstretch lower back stretch should be
doing that every morning leading up to
the ski season and while you're here
we're going to move to another one and
this has become a real favorite of mine
it put it helps to stretch a muscle
that's deep in your glutes it's called
the piriformis muscle it's hard to get
to traditional stretching doesn't get to
it as well a really critical stretch
that I really asked all my guests to use
and we should all be doing it I learned
it here from one of our guests for a
period formas stretch that muscle runs
deep in your glutes it's hard to get to
and its really affected by skiing when
we get in this stance it tends to get
aggravated you hold that all winter you
notice that the guides especially
skiing so much so here's a good stretch
where we're going to start with a basic
stretch for will move into a more
advanced forum so Brooks is going to
cross his right leg like that we chew
the hole keeping your head on the ground
and just pull everybody's done this
stretch you can bring it up depends on
how flexible they are good just holding
with that that is a very beginner
stretch for the piriformis muscle but I
want to move into the next one so gross
is going to get on his hands and knees
now okay it's going to move forward a
little bit cross his right leg over his
left good keep your head up there now if
you can get his elbows on the ground
perfect and push back when you're there
get that stretch that muscle is hard to
get to a hard to stretch but very
important for stretching if you're doing
that this fall it's part of your workout
routine and leading up to the ski season
and when you're here during the week I
guarantee you're going to feel a little
better at the hips in the lower back it
swap sides ever works thank you and good
push it back forward excellent you want
to hold these stretches for 30 seconds
want to feel that and this is a great
way to warm up before skiing getting
that piriformis active as a you know it
tends to sit in there when I'm skiing it
gets shortened and I really have noticed
that this stretch help me we're going to
move outside now do a couple of
exercises and help you get ready for the
ski season thanks Bruce beautiful time
here Blue River the fall we've got some
snow on the piece you can see around
looking up copies and into mud we're
going to do a couple of explosive
exercises skiing relies a lot on car and
explosive leg stuff and those stretches
that we talk to it so we have talked
about doing some really good core
exercises we're now going to move into
some explosive training stuff starting
with a ball throw now the nice thing
about this exercise and the exercises
we're going to do you don't need a lot
of stuff
this is nice having a flat area we have
a 12-pound medicine ball you can use
eight whatever you whatever you need
that way if you don't have a medicine
ball you don't need to use the ball this
is just taking to another level so
Brooks is going to start this is a
simple pick the ball up fired in the air
and as he's firing he's going to jump
let the ball fault Brooks demonstrate
please that's perfect exercise to work
your whole body you get lots of
explosive activity in the legs and it
goes hand in hand with what we're going
to do next for this one we just need a
simple box trucks come on over here what
we're going to do is standing on the
side of the Box jump on to the Box jump
off of the box jump onto the box jump
off of the box great this is not an
exercise where we need number of reps
you want to time this and it's great
because you can start with 20 seconds
how much you can do in 20 you can go to
30 and keep going from there and then we
can alter the height of the box or the
step that we're going to use right here
this is a good level little higher than
intro but not super high and it allows
Brooks to get good explosive power out
of his legs the next one we're going to
try is just to step up on the box simple
from the ground one foot on the ground
step up and explode yep
and to add to this what I'm going to get
Brooks to do now is to step up with both
feet and step off the other side up
reach up up up up up perfect try these
exercises in your routine this fall get
ready we can't wait to see it as you can
see diamonds head we've got snow bears
den all around we're ready for you we're
looking forward to seeing in the
mountains